well Jesus rocks here and you know I've
been neglecting my playstation one for a
while now and over on my shelf some of
those classic PlayStation 1 games have
been kind of you know I just been
they've been looking pretty cool I want
to play them again and you might have
seen that in my roll cage to review
recently and another game that was on my
shelf that was kind of going you know
it's been too long as it played it and
that is the original fear effect by I
DOS and I saw this on the shelf and I
haven't played it probably 10 years and
I was like man I don't even remember
what that game is about I remember
really liking it but I was like it's
time to play it again
and I tell you I loved it it's really
cool so let's check it out
[Music]
oh right the review sorry about that guy
lil distracted so fear effect was
released by I dos for the PlayStation 1
in 2000 and it's a survival horror game
that is also an adventure game very
similar to sort of Resident Evil but
it's probably a little bit more I would
say light-hearted maybe also a little
bit more mature in its sort of sexual
themes it is it Jonesy
no it's just a fishing village believe
me now one of the things to really like
about this game is it asks the deep
questions in life
for instance what is hotter than a
half-naked chick running around a towel
with a gun well the answer is a
half-naked chick running around with the
towel with two guns Jim now who are you
waiting for
he's waiting for me so a story of fear
fact is this it's basically the distant
future you know kind of around Blade
Runner sort of time maybe or maybe ghost
in the shell' it has that very look and
feel sort of near future and you play
three mercenaries who catch wind of a
daughter of a very notorious crime lord
in Hong Kong who has ran away from her
father and you guys have the great idea
that you are going to kidnap her before
the father can find her and then ransom
her back to him for lots of money now
that's a great idea in theory but what
you don't understand in beginning the
game is that things get very weird very
quickly that the father is not exactly
who he says he is and maybe even the
girl isn't it gets really sort of
supernatural and out there it's pretty
interesting
so first up let me talk about the
controls and this is a great example of
why they drive me frickin crazy and that
is because they're very similar to the
classic sort of Resident Evil style of
tank controls and they are maddening at
first you will see me sort of running
around in circles barely trying to you
know get up this ladder here dying
repeatedly and that's because back in
the day a lot of games had these sort of
controls and it's been so long since I
played a game like that that it's sort
of weird to have to go back I would say
that's really it's only sort of knock
other than maybe difficulty in this game
just sort of getting used to what is
typically called tank controls but if
you give it enough time just like back
you know in 2000 you can get through
this game and have a lot of fun
so when fear effect was released
originally it was most notable for its
visual style and what it's doing here is
basically it has 3d rendered backgrounds
just kind of like Resident Evil but the
difference is that it's actually a movie
that's looping in the background so
that's why you get the fire that's why
you get sort of the different lighting
effects on the barrel right there
there's another scene where you are in a
cityscape and you're looking down on
traffic and this is you know your
character is a polygon that's in that
scene but the looping background really
adds a lot of sort of depth and realism
to it that just wasn't possible at the
time and you know it's really low
resolution now and looks kind of dated
but it's still it's still pretty
cool-looking it definitely has a style
to it
okay now here comes one of my favorite
clips watch closely
okay now how many games do you know
we're using your towels strategically
progresses a story huh not nearly enough
what you got a military supply train
probably loaded with weapons but closer
look that meant the train that is
so the story starts off pretty simple
man it gets really weird really quick
and what I mean by that is so that
actually the last disc of the game is
and I know this is kind of a spoiler but
man it actually ends up in hell
literally you actually go to hell and
fight the devil and you know again I
don't want to give too much away but
like some of the characters in this game
actually end up down there and you meet
them it's really actually pretty wild so
I don't want to give away too many
spoilers here and I chose not to show
that stuff but if you like that sort of
thing you should definitely check this
out
so let's talk about some of the
negatives at the game the first one is
that it's actually pretty short
you can probably finish this game in
about five or six hours and your first
playthrough but the second negative is
is that the reason why it takes a little
bit longer even is that it's so
difficult I mean there are parts this
game where let's put this way there's a
kitchen scene here where your sword is
trying to be stealthy and make it past
these cooks and you can't fire a weapon
and you have to sort of you know figure
out the timing I probably played through
that no kidding
maybe 30 or 40 times just to get the
timing down it's brutally difficult
sometimes I would say you're gonna need
a walkthrough and part of that is due to
the graphics sometimes you just can't
see what's going on
alright well that was fear fact for the
PlayStation 1 now if you like survival
horror games or adventure games like
this just note that they also released a
sequel for it which actually is a
prequel in the story so very cool they
refined a couple things to me the
controls a slightly better so if you're
a collector of PlayStation 1 games
definitely check this out
thanks for watching